asdfghjkl

Positive Life Quotes To Live By

Rule #1 of life. Do what makes YOU happy. - Unknown

When I hear somebody sigh, 'Life is hard', I am always tempted to ask, 'Compared to what?' - Sydney Harris

Life is 10% what happens to us and 90% how we react to it. - Dennis P. Kimbro

There is no royal road to anything. One thing at a time, all things in succession. That which grows fast, withers as rapidly. That which grows slowly, endures.
- Josiah Gilbert Holland

Be not afraid of life. Believe that life is worth living, and your belief will help create the fact. - William James

When I stand before God at the end of my life, I would hope that I would not have a single bit of talent left and could say, I used everything you gave me. - Erma Bombeck

The quickest way to double your money is to fold it over and put it back in your pocket. - Will Rogers

Even if you're on the right track, you'll get run over if you just sit there. - Will Rogers

Nurture your mind with great thoughts. To believe in the heroic makes heroes. - Benjamin Disraeli

The real opportunity for success lies within the person and not in the job. - Zig Ziglar

Look at the sparrows; they do not know what they will do in the next moment. Let us literally live from moment to moment. - Mahatma Gandhi

Luck is a dividend of sweat. The more you sweat, the luckier you get. - Ray Kroc

When I let go of what I am, I become what I might be. - Lao Tzu

You may find the worst enemy or best friend in yourself. - English Proverb

Whoever loves much, performs much, and can accomplish much, and what is done in love is done well. - Vincent Van Gogh

Courage is the first of human qualities because it is the quality which guarantees all others. - Winston Churchill

The great thing in this world is not so much where you stand, as in what direction you are moving. - Oliver Wendell Holmes

Live each day as if your life had just begun. - Johann Wolfgang Von Goethe

Every truth passes through three stages before it is recognized. In the first, it is ridiculed. In the second, it is opposed. In the third, it is regarded as self evident. - Arthur Schopenhauer

Either you run the day, or the day runs you. - Jim Rohn

The difference between a successful person and others is not lack of strength not a lack of knowledge but rather a lack of will. - Vince Lombardi

If not us, who? If not now, when? - John F. Kennedy

Don't worry about failures, worry about the chances you miss when you don't even try. - Jack Canfield

Though no one can go back and make a brand new start, anyone can start from now and make a brand new ending. - Carl Bard

Life has two rules: #1 Never quit #2 Always remember rule #1. - Unknown

Some men see things as they are and say why - I dream things that never were and say why not. - George Bernard Shaw

The only way of finding the limits of the possible is by going beyond them into the impossible. - Arthur C. Clarke

Speak less than you know; have more than you show. - William Shakespeare

Do not go where the path may lead, go instead where there is no path and leave a trail. - Ralph Waldo Emerson

Many of life's failures are experienced by people who did not realize how close they were to success when they gave up. - Thomas Edison

Education costs money. But then so does ignorance. - Sir Claus Moser

The journey of a thousand miles begins with one step. Lao Tzu

Every noble work is at first impossible. - Thomas Carlyle

Do not let what you cannot do interfere with what you can do. - John Wooden

Defeat is not bitter unless you swallow it. - Joe Clark

Nobody ever wrote down a plan to be broke, fat, lazy, or stupid. Those things are what happen when you don't have a plan. - Larry Winget

The best revenge is massive success. - Frank Sinatra

It is not enough to aim, you must hit. - Italian Proverb

Challenges are what make life interesting and overcoming them is what makes life meaningful. - Joshua J. Marine

Every strike brings me closer to the next home run. - Babe Ruth

An obstacle is often a stepping stone. - Prescott

I am not a product of my circumstances. I am a product of my decisions. - Stephen Covey

Our lives begin to end the day we become silent about things that matter. - Martin Luther King Jr.

Keep away from people who try to belittle your ambitions. Small people always do that, but the really great makes you feel that you, too, can become great. - Mark Twain

Eighty percent of success is showing up. - Woody Allen

I have never in my life learned anything from any man who agreed with me. - Dudley Field Malone

I am thankful for all of those who said NO to me. Its because of them I'm doing it myself. - Albert Einstein

We become what we think about. - Earl Nightingale

The mind is everything. What you think you become. - Buddha

What inspires you? There are a lot of things that can provide inspiration - seeing other people accomplish great things, seeing other people overcome adversity, hearing inspirational quotes from great people, even the sheer beauty of nature can remind us just how lucky we are to be alive.

It's easy to forget what an amazing gift life really is. Our lives are nothing but a cosmic blink. Even our seemingly all-encompassing world is just tiny blue dot circling an average sized star spiraling around a galaxy of 200-400 billion stars, which itself is just one galaxy among billions more. Yet for one brief moment, we get to experience the wonders of existence, of consciousness.
 
Having a positive outlook on life is a crucial part of finding inspiration. In the paragraph above, did you feel inspired reading about the vastness of our universe and our unique place within it, or did you feel overwhelmed and depressed at the insignificance of it all?

Our brains are wired to find things we're looking for - if you're always cynical or waiting for things to go wrong, then your life will reflect that. On the other hand, having a positive outlook on life will bring you joy and provide you with inspiration when you least expect it.

Of course, there are times when it's difficult to feel cheery or positive - life can be difficult. If you're having trouble seeing the cup as half full instead of half empty, reading some positive quotes about life can help you snap out of your funk. Here are some inspirational life quotes to help you see the amazing potential that life has to offer.